---
title: 'What’s Missing in Agile Hardware Design? Verification!'
date: 2024-01-11T08:50:17+08:00
draft: false
resource_tags: ["Opinion","Paper"]
status: "evergreen"
onhomepage: false
weight: 2
summary: "Author：Babak Falsafi"
---
> Author：Babak Falsafi，Fellow, ACM, IEEE. Parallel Systems Architecture Laboratory, Institute of Computer and Communication Sciences, School of Computer and Communication Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, CH-1015, Switzerland

> Source：https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/gbA9lQ6xXfnWHXlx1RZ-vQ
--- 

Agile hardware design is an approach to developing hardware systems that draws inspiration from the princi-
ples and practices of agile software development. It emphasizes collaboration, flexibility, iterative development,
and quick adaptation to changing requirements. In agile hardware design, the focus is on delivering functional
hardware systems in shorter development cycles while maintaining high-quality and customer satisfaction.

In particular, agile hardware design is of great interest in the open-source hardware community. Open-source
hardware development—such as RISC-V—is at the forefront of initiatives to democratize hardware and drive in-
novation in chip design forward. Agile design is instrumental for the RISC-V community because it supports
rapid iteration, accommodates the evolving RISC-V standard and the addition of custom extensions, improves
community collaboration and time-to-market, and addresses the design challenges associated with complex archi-
tectural features.

Among significant innovations based on agile hardware design is the recently announced XiangShan RISC-V
core which is currently the highest performing RISC-V out-of-order microprocessor core with single-thread per-
formance exceeding both existing RISC-V cores and a state-of-the-art ARM core, Cortex-A76. The creators of
this platform have published their agile design methodology in a flagship computer architecture venue, MICRO,
with a paper that has been selected through peer review to be among the best dozen papers in all of computer
architecture in one year for publication in IEEE Micro Top Picks.

A key contributor to this breakthrough has been integrating hardware verification into the agile methodolo-
gy. Hardware verification is crucial in designing digital platforms, as it ensures that semiconductor chips operate
correctly and reliably according to the architecture specifications. Verification guarantees compliance with stan-
dards, and helps detect and rectify design errors, validate system-level functionality, optimize performance and
power consumption, and enhance hardware reliability and safety. It plays a fundamental role in creating robust
and dependable CPUs that meet the requirements of various applications and workloads.

There are also a number of trends in recent years that have made robust verification indispensable to hard-
ware design and deployment. These include the slowdown in Moore’s Law resulting in more heterogeneity and
diversity in design, concerns about security and integrity in digital platforms, and the emergence of open-source
hardware (e.g., RISC-V) which is anchored on collaboration among a large community of developers without
centralized ownership and coordination. Therefore, contributions to integrating verification into agile design are
not only of importance to the RISC-V community but also of great interest to the broader hardware design in-
dustry.

This paper titled ``Functional Verification for Agile Processor Development: A Case for Workflow Integra-
tion'' identifies a key limitation in the collaboration and information exchange between existing agile hardware
design methodologies and conventional functional verification. This disconnect hinders the seamless integration
of verification workflows and toolchains with agile development practices. The authors address this issue by
proposing workflow integration that incorporates collaborative task delegation and dynamic information ex-
change as fundamental principles for achieving agile hardware design with functional verification.


Paper：[Functional Verification for Agile Processor Development: A Case for Workflow Integration](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/rKg_oCI0cTRXnP7BHFnEDA)
